In this lesson, we're going to learn about the benefits of using CloudFront.
In the last lesson, we discussed the role and benefit of using a CDN.
We're going to take those principles and apply them to
CloudFront's features and see how they line up.
In my personal opinion, CloudFront has been a great experience.
I have worked with many different types of CDN services.
Nearly all of the use cases that I've come across,
CloudFront has been able to provide a viable solution and I
believe it will provide the same for you.
AWS has built CloudFront into a vast global network.
With 169 points of presence spread across 6 continents,
you can see how many of their Edge locations are closer
to your end users than your origin.
Of those 169 locations, 158 of them are Edge locations,
which is where DNS will point end users to retrieve
data when requesting content.
There are also 11 regional Edge caches.
These are basically mid-tier caches for the Edge locations.
You might want to think of them as a CDN for the CDN.
These regional Edge caches are what actually talk to your origin and
provide central caches for the Edge locations.
This, by design,
prevents all of the 158 Edge locations from making a request to your origin.
Instead, they contact the regional Edge caches.
CloudFront is improving performance and reducing latency by
continuously measuring internet connectivity and performance to find
the best way to route requests to the AWS network.
They take into account performance, load,
operational status, and other factors to deliver the best experience.
CloudFront is also running on the AWS global backbone,
this allows for really fast transmission times between the
Edge locations and other AWS services.
Also, there are network layer optimizations with TCP,
fast open, and keep alive connections have definitely improved performance.
This really helps accelerate both your static and dynamic content.
Now as you know,
most modern websites and applications are a mixture
of dynamic and static content.
Microservices also expose an increasing number of APIs
and requests between components.
CloudFront provides flexibility for optimizing cache behavior
along with network layer optimizations.
CloudFront supports WebSocket,
as well as the HTTP protocol with the following HTTP methods.
This means you can improve the performance of
dynamic websites that have web forms, logins,
and other features that upload data from the end user.
It also means through route 53,
you can use a single domain name to deliver your
whole website through CloudFront,
thereby accelerating both the download and the upload parts of the website.
As they've grown and improved the network,
cache retention has emerged as a key contributor to performance.
The CDN is architected to keep objects longer in
cache and to reduce cache churn.
Techniques like tiered caching and deduplication in
cache help maximize cache retention.
The great feature of CloudFront,
as well as any other component of AWS is the pay-as-you-go pricing.
You pay only for what you use.
So there is no minimum fee and you don't pay for any unused services.
If you're using AWS origins, such as S3,
EC2, or elastic load balancing,
you don't pay for any data transferred between these services in CloudFront.
Most services do not charge for data transferred,
as long as it's within the AWS network.
As stated before, CDNs, in general, reduce traffic to your origins,
but with CloudFront's regional Edge caches,
there are even fewer nodes that need to make requests to your origin.
Now if you're already using AWS origins,
then that's not really a big deal from a cost perspective because you
already have the free data transfers inside the AWS network.
This cost reduction will come into play if you use an
origin outside of the AWS network.
Your web applications often need to contend with spikes in
traffic during peak periods of activity.
For example, retail websites will have spikes during a sale,
but drop off dramatically afterwards.
By using CloudFront,
you can cache your content at the Edge location and reduce the workload on your
origin by only fetching content from the origin when needed.
This reduced workload on your origin helps you increase
the availability of your application.
CloudFront also allows you to set up multiple origins to
enable redundancy to your backend.
You can use CloudFront's origin failover capability to
automatically serve your content from a secondary origin
when your primary is unavailable.
The origins you set up with origin failover can be any
combination of the AWS origins like EC2 instances,
S3 buckets,
or even non-AWS origins like an HTTP server running in another cloud provider.
while we won't be going into much detail during this
course on the following services, it's worth mentioning that AWS's shield,
web application firewall,
as well as route 53 all work together to create a flexible,
layered security perimeter against multiple types of attacks
including network and application layer DDoS.
All of these services are available at the AWS Edge and provide a
reliable security perimeter for your website.
With CloudFront as the front door to your application and infrastructure,
you're moving the primary attack service away from your critical infrastructure.
With CloudFront, you can deliver your content,
APIs,
or applications via SSL or TLS and advance SSL features
are enabled automatically for you.
You can use AWS Certificate Manager to easily create a custom SSL
certificate and deploy to your CloudFront distribution.
ACM automatically handles certificate renewal and
eliminates the manual renewal process.
Additionally,
CloudFront provides a number of SSL optimizations and advanced capabilities,
such as OCSP stapling, session tickets perfect for secrecy,
TLS protocol enhancements, and field level encryption.
You can restrict access to your content through a number of capabilities.
With signed URLs and signed cookies,
you can support token authentication to restrict
access to only authenticated viewers.
Through geo restriction,
you can prevent users in specific geographic
locations from accessing your content.
With OAI, or origin access identity,
you can restrict access to an S3 bucket to only be accessible from CloudFront.
CloudFront provides an API to configure and maintain your distributions.
In addition, you can access API with a number of tools,
such as AWS CloudFormation, HashiCorp's Terraform,
and other configuration management or orchestration tools.
We will install the AWS CLI in order to show you how to access this API.
Distributions can be configured with multiple behaviors,
which define how to process your request and what features will be applied.
You are able to control how CloudFront caches,
communicates with your origin, customize what headers and metadata are forward,
and other customizations.
CloudFront can also detect the country level location of a requesting
user for further customization of the response.
Lambda@Edge puts your code running closer to the users by
running your functions at the Edge locations.
For web and mobile requests,
the compute request from your users can be delivered closer to
them improving their overall experience.
Alright,
well I think we have touched on all principles we called out
previously as important elements of a CDN,
and you should now understand what CloudFront is doing
to meet all of those requirements. Let's move on to setting up your tools so you can begin using CloudFront.